Hardware Specs (Critical)

Yes — you must confirm the target hardware before writing a single line of code.

The MVP lives or dies based on whether this machine can do:

Silence → 1.2s audio → Whisper tiny.en (CPU int8) → <1.5s output.

I need to know:

Required:

CPU model (e.g., Intel i5-8250U, Ryzen 5 4500U)

Number of cores

Base/boost frequency

RAM size

OS (Windows 10/11?)

Is background blur used during sales calls?

Why this matters:

If the CPU is:

pre-2018

2 cores

or running at 1.0–1.6 GHz sustained under Zoom load

Whisper tiny.en CPU may never hit <1.5 seconds — no matter what code we write.

This is the biggest existential risk to the project.

2. Environment Setup – Can We Install the Required Dependencies Now?

Short answer: Yes — and we should.

The MVP requires:

pip install sounddevice numpy torch
pip install faster-whisper sentence-transformers
pip install pyqt6
pip install keyboard


Nothing here is dangerous or intrusive.
All are standard Python scientific/audiovisual libraries.

Important:

sounddevice sometimes requires Microsoft Visual C++ runtime or WASAPI permissions.
We’ll know immediately whether the environment is viable.

Installing now gives early signal if the machine is capable.

3. Execution Strategy – Critical Path vs. Physics Test (Which First?)

You asked:

The "Physics Test" and "Critical Path" have slightly different orderings.
Should we follow the "Critical Path" (Day 1 = Whisper first)
or the "Physics Test" (Phase 1 = Audio/VAD first)?

Here is the definitive answer:

**FOLLOW THE CRITICAL PATH.

NOT the Physics Test order.**

Why?

A. Whisper First = Fastest Feasibility Check

The #1 question is:
Can Whisper tiny.en run <1.3s on this machine?

This can be tested with a 1-second WAV file in 30 minutes — no audio code, no VAD, no ring buffer.

If Whisper alone is too slow, the entire MVP is dead on arrival, and we need:

smaller models

GPU

or a totally different architecture

So testing Whisper first is the fastest kill path.

B. Audio/VAD before Whisper is dangerous

If you start with VAD + buffer extraction:

You may spend 10 hours writing audio glue

Only to discover Whisper is too slow to meet the 1.5s budget

Meaning everything you built is wasted engineering time

This is why the “Critical Path” (Day 1 → Whisper test) is correct.

C. Physics Test uses VAD-first for realism, NOT feasibility

Physics Test = “full pipeline test.”

Critical Path = “check for feasibility as early as possible with minimal dependencies.”

For feasibility, follow the Critical Path.